# MEIS_Methodology
Contains R code for transforming raw data to allow import and processing by IMPLAN 


## How to Use This Repository
Fork repository, and Clone to a new local RStudio Project.
Edit Parameters file- see instructions below or [(link to Documentation)] for detailed explanations.
Select relevant master.R" file to run. The depreciated file may be used to repeat the FY 2020 study, but all subsequent years should use "run_analysis_master.R"


## Parameters File
Update the parameters file to your desired specifications in order to prepare custom defense spending data for entry into IMPLAN. 

### General Global Variables
- f_year:
  - Accepted values: A four digit year of the fiscal year of data (may be different than the report year) in double quotes
    -Example: "2020"
- year:
  - Accepted values: A four digit year of the expected publication date of the study in double quotes
    - Example: "2021"
- state:
  - Accepted values: The target state of the study, in upper case wrapped in double quotes  
    -Example: "CALIFORNIA"

###User-Generated Employment File Variables
- res_mult:
  - Accepted values: the multiplier to calculate full time employment numbers from military reserves in decimal format.
    - Example: 0.1825
- national_sus_dhs:
  - Accepted values: the number of suppressed federal employees in integer format.
    - Example: 155282
- sus_dhs_mult:
  - Accepted values: the multiplier for calculating the number of national suppressed federal employees in the given study region in decimal format.
    - Example: .142


### obtain_usaspending.R Parameters
With the exception of 'tier_name,' variables under "Required" MUST have an accepted value entry or the USAspending API will not run.

#### Required Variables
- agency_type: 
  - Accepted values:
    - "awarding"
    - "funding"
- agency_tier: 
  - Accepted values:
    - "toptier"
    - "subtier" 
- agency_name: Required
  - Accepted Format:
    - ["Full Proper-case Name of Agency"]
      -Example: "Department of Veterans Affairs" 
- tier_name: Optional, Required if agency_name is for a subtier agency
  - Accepted Format:
    - ["Full Proper-case Name of Agency"]
      - Example: "Department of Homeland Security"
- date_type:
  - Accepted Values:
    - "action_date"
    - "last_modified_date"
- date_range_start:
  - Accepted Format: 
    - Year-Month-Day or yyyy-mm-dd 
- date_range_end:
  - Accepted Format: 
    - Year-Month-Day or yyyy-mm-dd 

#### Optional Variables

##### Award Type Variables

- awards: 
  - Accepted Values:
    - Contract Type Awards:
      - "A" 
      - "B" 
      - "C" 
      - "D"
    - Grant Type Awards:
      - "01" 
      - "02" 
      - "03" 
      - "04" 
      - "05" 
    - Direct Payments:  
      - "06" 
      - "10" 

##### Location Variables
The API can handle a list of countries or a list of states within one country or a list of counties within one country and state etc. 
Counties and districts are mutually exclusive filters- you must pick one or the other. If you wish to aggregate data by both, it will require several separate API queries to get data of interest.

- recipient_locations_country:
  - Accepted Values:
    - Country acronym 
      - Example: "USA"
- recipient_locations_state:
  - Accepted Values:
    - State acronym 
      - Example: "CA"
- recipient_locations_county: 
  - Accepted Values:
    - County 3- digit FIPS code
      - Example: "003"
- recipient_locations_district:
  - Accepted Values:
    - District name 
      - Example: "2"

For complete documentation of award types permitted in the filter see: 
- https://fedspendingtransparency.github.io/whitepapers/types/ and
- https://github.com/fedspendingtransparency/usaspending-api/blob/master/usaspending_api/api_contracts/contracts/v2/bulk_download/awards.md

### filter_usaspending.R Parameters
This function is designed to filter the USASpending.gov download based on user specified parameters.
Department of Energy (DOE) data has a special additional filtering step, not all DOE spending is considered defense spending. 

- doe = "DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (DOE)"
- doe_offices: 
    - Accepted values are DOE subtier agencies that are considered to be part of defense spending, names should be in "", comma separated and upper case
      - Example: "MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY"
- grant_columns:
  - Accepted values are column headers for data columns you wish to keep in the output file for grants data, exactly as written in the file and in "".
    - Example: "awarding_agency_name"
- c_label:
  - Accepted values: any unique word appearing in the name of the contract data file generated by the USASpending API 
    - Example: 'Contracts'
- g_label: 
  - Accepted values: any unique word appearing in the name of the grant data file generated by the USASpending API 
    - Example: 'Assistance'
- c_out_name:
  - Accepted values: any output name with a ".csv" file type ending. It is recommended to follow a naming convention when entering this variable
    - Example: paste0(year,"_all_contract_spending.csv")
- g_out_name: 
  - Accepted values: any output name with a ".csv" file type ending. It is recommended to follow a naming convention when entering this variable
    - Example: paste0(year,"_all_grant_spending.csv")

##concatenate_usaspending parameters##
- u_out_name:
  - Accepted values: any output name with a ".csv" file type ending. It is recommended to follow a naming convention when entering this variable 
    - Example: paste0(year,"_concatenated_usaspending.csv")


##aggregate_usaspending parameters##
- u_state_outname:
  - Accepted values: any output name with a ".csv" file type ending. It is recommended to follow a naming convention when entering this variable
    - Example: paste0(year, "_aggregated_usaspending_statewide.csv")
- doe_state_outname:
  - Accepted values: any output name with a ".csv" file type ending. It is recommended to follow a naming convention when entering this variable
    -Example: paste0(year, "_aggregated_doespending_statewide.csv")
    
## Additional Notes
If you are repeating the 2021 California study, pay attention to what sections of the "DEPRECATED_ruN_analysis_master.R" you are running. There is a break between obtaining, filtering and cleaning data where the user will have to manually edit errors in the data and save the files to the correct folders before continuing the code. See ([Link to documentation]) for detailed instructions. 

The "run_analysis_master.R"" code follows similar conventions, but is updated to correct errors in data in a more automated way. Follow instructions in the code comments. 


